Blog Post

Both Moretti and Drucker argue that visual forms (e.g. graphs, maps, etc.) can and should be used to represent cultural phenomena (e.g. the experience of temporality, rises and falls in genre, etc.). Moving between written and visual mediums of expression offers a model for the next generation of digital humanities scholarship, where readers are asked to think critically across both textual and graphical modes. As such, digital humanities scholarship should increasingly create multimodal scholarship where readers interpret both the text and any other media (such as graphs, images, audio, and so on). Creating scholarship that asks readers to interpret across multiple modes will distinguish digital humanities scholarship from scholarship in the sciences.
Moretti and Drucker agree on many points about how we as digital humanists should view data through more interactive modes. 
This will indeed separate the digital humanities from other form of science and study, but Drucker goes too far on the separation. The digital humanities were born from other forms of study and was created recently compared to many other streams; we should keep this in mind when looking at the ways in which we view data. This is where my mindset differs from Drucker in this sense, she proposes that we changed the very idea of data. In her article she states: “This requires first and foremost that we reconceive all data as capta.” This would separate the field so distantly that other fields would not be able to reliably use the “capta” she proposes as a solution. The digital humanities are an expansive field with a massive amount of information and data out there, therefore making other forms of data interpretations is a great step in the right direction. But to overshoot the goal of more clear information making a new type of information would be a wrongdoing to the field. Digital Humanities are unique because of the incredible ways to portray previously collected data. The wow factor of the medium used to display information is a draw in for many, as we can all agree that pictures are better than bricks of text.


 The ways that Drucker is trying to make mainstream make the information look clustered and cramped. Her methods do give way more information than the conventional graph and are much more helpful for a lot of simpler cases but there are better ways to show the same data and when the information becomes more abstract such as the time graphs she shows, the graphs become too intricate for most to understand. To further her point about how fundamental her changes would be she says this: “I am suggesting that we rethink the foundation of the way data are conceived as capta by shifting its terms from certainty to ambiguity and find graphical means of expressing interpretative complexity.” This would make the Digital Humanities such a different field that to understand the information it would take the effort of learning a new language.  
<iframe style='width: 637px; height: 507px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Cirrus/?docId=84cca7a7c059a31b767f5d4d679511b5&corpus=4d6b85d42ad514bc9292e5137fed7434'></iframe>


Moretti’s stand on the further growth of Digital Humanities is much less extreme and has a lot of potential. Moretti wants to delineate the structure of study, to look at the big picture instead of the small one. The field is so massive that to look at single instances instead of the overarching trends is a crime. He aims for as he puts it “A more rational literary history” he focuses on literary history, but his strategies and ideas can be brought to any type of study done. Moving to more interactive passage of information would help in more ways than I can list. To name one this would make information much more digestible by the average consumer. For Digital Humanities this is important because of the manner of the field itself being able to convey information easily is a massive part of all digital humanist studies. This also leads too creativity, by having an environment where more interesting ways of showing information are rewarded this will encourage newcomers in the field to approach ideas in interesting ways. Through this lens of digital information, we can further explore larger amounts of information at a time, the assignments we have done in class show this. We all had to do presentation of interesting ways to convey information, I know that it was interesting to learn what people in our field are making to demonstrate this next step in Digital Humanities. Through his research he shows how this is helpful in the collection of data for further research and how it streamlines many different styles of Digital Humanities. 
<iframe style='width: 637px; height: 507px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Cirrus/?docId=eaf6d916717f89008b7b1bd32eca7311&corpus=4d6b85d42ad514bc9292e5137fed7434'></iframe>

Through both views there are benefits and drawbacks, but in my mind, there is clearly a better option to the next step of information in Digital Humanities. Drucker’s view would streamline things for the Digital Humanist, but it separates our field too far from other fields of research. Although the idea of a dedicated form of data as she describes “capta” would be nice and would make the data very accessible once everyone has converted. That process would be incredibly difficult and tedious. Moretti’s view has major benefits without the intrusive nature of Druckers. His proposed next step allows for the representation of information to be an asset and to be used in new and exciting ways. There are so many positives that to me it is the clear way that information should be looked at academically through the Digital Humanities.

